Instalation instructions update 2022/3 (#139)
UBC-MDS/UBC-MDS.github.io: resources_pages/install_ds_stack_windows.md

---
layout: page
title: Windows

> subtitle: MDS software stack install instructions for Windows 2022/3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subtitle: MDS software stack install instructions for Windows 2022/23
```

To improve the experience of using R in JupyterLab,
we will add keyboard shortcuts for inserting the common R operators `<-` and `|>`.
Go to `Settings -> Advanced Settings Editor -> JSON Settings Editor (top right corner) -> Keyboard Shortcuts`.
You will see two panels,
the right-most panel allows you to perform advanced modification
of keyboards shortcuts in JupyterLab
and it already contains quite a few shortcuts.
We're going to add two more shortcuts,
by pasting a text snippet just before the first existing shortcut.
Go ahead and create a new line just after the line that says `"shortcuts": [`
and paste the following:
 

```json

> {

Reviewer: Paste in the same blurb here as I included in my comment above for the mac instructions

For more examples and ideas, visit:
 https://docs.docker.com/get-started/
```

> ## Quarto CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Quarto
```

Or change the ToC

Quarto is an open-source scientific and technical publishing system that you can access from VSCode, Jupyter Lab, RStudio, or the terminal. 

The [RStudio version that you have downloaded](https://quarto.org/docs/tools/rstudio.html) is already equipped with the last version of Quarto. You can check this by opening a new document in `File -> New File -> Quarto Document`.

Quarto can be used outside RStudio as well, this is why we are going to install Quarto CLI. Please, download the [last version of Quarto CLI](https://quarto.org/docs/get-started/) for Windows.

After the installation finishes, close all the terminals you may have open. Then, open a new one and try running this command:

```bash

> quarto --version

Author: ```suggestion
quarto.cmd --version
```

```
If the installation was successful you will read the output:

```bash
1.0.38

> > **Note:** Pay attention that due to the Windows settings suggested in this installation you will always have to write  `quarto.cmd` instead of `quarto` to run Quarto commands. Read more [here](https://community.rstudio.com/t/bash-quarto-command-not-found/144187/3).

Reviewer: Shouldn't the version command above be `quarto.cmd --version` then?

OK        psql (PostgreSQL) 14.5
OK        rstudio 2022.07.1+554
OK        tlmgr revision 63068 (2022-04-18 07:58:07 +0200)
OK        R 4.2.1 (2022-06-23 ucrt) -- "Funny-Looking Kid"
OK        python 3.10.0
OK        conda 4.13.0
OK        bash 4-pc-msys)
OK        git 2.37.2.windows.2
OK        make 4.3
OK        latex 3.141592653-2.6-1.40.24 (TeX Live 2022)
OK        docker 20.10.17, build 100c701
OK        code 1.70.1

## Python packages
OK        pandas=1.4.3
OK        pyppeteer=1.0.2
OK        nbconvert=6.5.3
OK        jupyterlab=3.4.5
OK        jupyterlab-git=0.38.0
OK        jupytext=1.14.0
OK        jupyterlab-spellchecker=0.7.2
OK        jupyterlab PDF-generation was successful.
OK        jupyterlab WebPDF-generation was successful.
OK        jupyterlab HTML-generation was successful.

## R packages
OK        tidyverse=1.3.2
OK        markdown=1.1
OK        rmarkdown=2.14
OK        renv=0.15.5
OK        IRkernel=1.3
OK        tinytex=0.40
OK        janitor=2.1.0
OK        gapminder=0.3.0
OK        readxl=1.4.0
OK        ottr=1.1.3
OK        canlang=0.0.1
OK        rmarkdown PDF-generation was successful.
OK        rmarkdown HTML-generation was successful.

> The above output has been saved to the file /c/Users/Florencia/check-setup-mds.log

Author: ```suggestion
This output and additional configuration details have been saved to the file /c/Users/Florencia/check-setup-mds.log
```
